+++
date = 2017-09-23T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.

title = "Evaluation of the nanoscale spectroscopic and chemical mapping results of carbon nanotube composite materials (Poster)"
time_start = 2017-09-24T18:00:00
time_end = 2017-09-24T21:00:00
abstract = "Modern technique combining infra-red spectroscopy and atomic force microscopy (AFM) allows the chemical mapping with the spatial resolution down to 30 nm. However, due to specific detection of the infrared signal special attention must be paid to data-processing stage. In this contribution evaluation of the nanoscale chemical mapping results  of carbon nanotube composite materials will be presented. Nanostructural composites reinforced with carbon nanotube assemblies, such as CNT fibres or mats are promising materials for the numerous applications from avionics to high-tech industry. Ability to gain insight into the chemical composition of such composite materials may provide a way for their further improvement."
abstract_short = ""
event = "9th International Workshop on Infrared Microscopy and Spectroscopy with Accelerator-Based Sources"
event_url = "http://www.wirms2017.com/"
location = "Worcester College, Oxford, UK"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["CNT"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "posters/2017-09-24-WIRMS.pdf"
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

Modern technique combining infra-red spectroscopy and atomic force microscopy (AFM) allows the chemical mapping with the spatial resolution down to 30 nm. However, due to specific detection of the infrared signal special attention must be paid to data-processing stage. In this contribution evaluation of the nanoscale chemical mapping results  of carbon nanotube composite materials will be presented. Nanostructural composites reinforced with carbon nanotube assemblies, such as CNT fibres or mats are promising materials for the numerous applications from avionics to high-tech industry [^1]. Ability to gain insight into the chemical composition of such composite materials may provide a way for their further improvement.

[^1]:  Y. L. Li, I. A. Kinloch, and A. H. Windle. Direct spinning of carbon nanotube ﬁbers from chemical vapor deposition synthesis. *Science*, **304** (5668): 276–278, 2004.
