+++
date = 2018-08-31T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.

title = "Processing of AFM-IR chemical mapping results of carbon nanotube composite materials in R Environment (e-Poster)"
time_start = 2018-09-12T12:00:00
time_end = 2018-09-12T14:30:00
abstract = "Nanostructural composites reinforced with carbon nanotube assemblies, such as CNT fibres and mats are interesting materials for the multiple potential applications: from avionics to high-tech industry. Possibility to gain insight into the chemical composition of such materials may provide a way for their further development and improvement of manufacturing process. By combining infra-red spectroscopy (IR) and atomic force microscopy (AFM) it is possible to perform the chemical mapping with the spatial resolution down to 30 nm. The CNT nanocomposites were analysed by means of nanoIR2 system (Anasys Instruments, USA).   Due to technique specific method of the detection of the infrared signal special attention must be paid during data-processing stage. Obtained results were evaluated with the help of R - open source environment for statistical analysis in order to ensure interpretability and reproducibility of the collected data. Various modes of measurements were processed, visualised and correlated to gain a better understanding of the system under investigation. Particularly the problem of obtaining topography-free infrared absorbance signal is discussed and some possible solutions are suggested in this contribution."
abstract_short = ""
event = "3rd annual European Forum on Nanoscale IR Spectroscopy"
event_url = "https://www.anasysinstruments.com/efns2018"
location = "National Physics Laboratory, London, UK"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["CNT"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

+++
