+++
title = "Micro and bulk analysis of prostate tissues classified as hyperplasia"
date = "2007-03-31"
authors = ["W M Kwiatek", "A Banas", "K Banas", "G Cinque", "G Dyduch", "G Falkenberg", "A Kisiel", "A Marcelli", "M Podgorczyk"]
publication_types = ["2"]
publication = "Spectrochimica Acta Part B: Atomic Spectroscopy, (62), 6-7, _pp. 707-710_, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sab.2007.04.002"
publication_short = "Spectrochimica Acta Part B: Atomic Spectroscopy, (62), 6-7, _pp. 707-710_, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sab.2007.04.002"
abstract = "BPH (Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia) is the most common benign neoplasm (non cancerous enlargement of the prostate gland), whose prevalence increases with age. The gland, when increased in size, exerts pressure on the urethra, causing obstruction to urine flow. The latter may result in severe urinary tract and kidney conditions. In this work prostate samples from patients diagnosed with BPH were analyzed using synchrotron radiation. Micro-analysis of the hyperplastic samples was carried out on the L-beam line at HASYLAB, DESY (Germany), while bulk analysis on selected samples was performed at the DRX2 beamline at LNF, Frascati (Italy). Microanalysis with a mono-energetic beam 15 microns in diameter confirmed that concentrations of certain elements, such as S, Mn, Cu, Fe and Zn, are good indicators of pathological disorders in prostate tissue that may be considered effective tracers of developing compliant. The concentrations of Mn, Cu, Fe and Zn are higher in hyperplastic tissues, as compared to normal ones, while for sulphur the opposite is observed. Additionally, Fe and S K-edge XANES (X-ray Absorption Near Edge Structure) spectroscopy experiments were carried out in order to determine the chemical speciation of these elements in our samples."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
