+++
title = "Application of linear discriminant analysis in prostate cancer research by synchrotron radiation-induced X-ray emission"
date = "2007-07-02"
authors = ["K Banas", "A Jasinski", "A M Banas", "M Gajda", "G Dyduch", "B Pawlicki", "W M Kwiatek"]
publication_types = ["2"]
publication = "Analytical Chemistry, (79), 17, pp. 6670--6674"
publication_short = "Analytical Chemistry, (79), 17, _pp. 6670--6674_, https://doi.org/10.1021/ac070931u"
abstract = "The ability to visualize an object of interest is one of the cornerstones of advancement in science. For this reason, synchrotron radiation-induced X-ray emission (micro-SRIXE) holds special promise as a imaging technique in structural biology, biochemistry, and medicine. It gives the possibility to image concentration of most of the elements in a sample at high space resolution. Statistical analysis of data obtained for samples of prostate tissues in an experiment at L-beam line HASYLAB (Hamburg, Germany) is presented in this paper. The regions for the measurements were selected according to the histological view of the sample. By histological examination, samples were divided into five groups (from healthy to Gleason4, most advanced stage of cancerogenesis). Data obtained in micro-SRIXE experiments on prostate cancer samples provide information about concentrations of certain elements in these groups. The rising problem is to find out concentrations of which elements allow the researcher to discriminate between different (early mentioned) groups. Linear discriminant analysis, a basic technique for feature extraction, was used in statistical analysis of the data. Our results indicate that the use of synchrotron radiation and discriminant analysis in the study of prostate cancer tissues provide information that can be key to better understanding of biomolecular functions."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = "https://doi.org/10.1021/ac070931u"
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
