+++
title = "Using micro-synchrotron radiation induced X-ray emission distribution maps to determine correlation between elements in prostate tissue"
date = "2008-05-28"
authors = ["A M Banas", "K Banas", "G Falkenberg", "G Dyduch", "B Pawlicki", "W M Kwiatek"]
publication_types = ["2"]
publication = "Spectrochimica Acta Part B: Atomic Spectroscopy, (63), 9, _pp. 957--961_, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sab.2008.05.009"
publication_short = "Spectrochimica Acta Part B: Atomic Spectroscopy, (63), 9, _pp. 957--961_, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sab.2008.05.009"
abstract = "Elemental maps obtained by micro-synchrotron radiation induced X-ray emission technique can be manipulated in several ways to extract useful information. In this paper the method of displaying the correlation between two or three elements in one correlation map is described. Such types of maps give precise information about the overlap between the elements without distorting the original data. In micro-synchrotron radiation induced X-ray emission experiments, the results are often presented as a set of elemental maps, one map for each element of interest per measurement. However, interpreting such a set of maps is not always trivial, especially for the correlation of elements in complicated structures. Refinement of the technique called “two-values” map by assigning one color for each element is presented here. The intensity of the color corresponds to the elemental amount in the map. These one color maps can be combined to provide correlation maps. If two or more elements are present in the same pixel, the resulting color of the pixel is a blend of the primary colors (e.g. yellow if green and red pixels are combined). Our implementation is based on the red, green, and blue color scheme so that two or three elemental maps can be combined. To obtain a color in the red, green, and blue system, three values between 0 (black) and 255 (full intensity) for, respectively, red, green, and blue are needed."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
