+++
title = "Correlation of concentrations of selected trace elements with Gleason grade of prostate tissues"
date = "2010-05-12"
authors = ["A M Banas", "W M Kwiatek", "K Banas", "M Gajda", "B Pawlicki", "T Cichocki"]
publication_types = ["2"]
publication = "Journal of Biological Inorganic Chemistry, (15), 7, _pp. 1147--55_, https://doi.org/10.1007/s00775-010-0675-5"
publication_short = "Journal of Biological Inorganic Chemistry, (15), 7, _pp. 1147--55_, https://doi.org/10.1007/s00775-010-0675-5"
abstract = "The causes of prostate cancer are still obscure but some evidence indicates that there is a close connection between several trace elements and processes which may lead to malignant cells. In our study the microbeam synchrotron radiation X-ray fluorescence emission (micro-SRIXE) technique was applied for quantitative analysis of selected elements. For the first time, we correlate the concentrations of Mn, Fe, Cu, and Zn with the clinical stage of the prostate cancer at the time of operation (described by Gleason grade). Serial sections of prostate tissues were collected from patients undergoing radical prostatectomy. One section, stained with hematoxylin and eosin, was prepared for histopathological analysis; a second, adjacent unstained section was used in micro-SRIXE experiments. All experiments were performed at beamline L at HASYLAB, DESY, Germany. Our results seem to be valuable in light of the determination of the changes in the concentrations of trace elements as a potential diagnostic marker and their etiological involvement in the different stages of prostate diseases."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
