+++
title = "Neoplastic disorders of prostate glands in the light of synchrotron radiation and multivariate statistical analysis"
date = "2011-06-12"
authors = ["A M Banas", "K Banas", "W M Kwiatek", "M Gajda", "B Pawlicki", "T Cichocki"]
publication_types = ["2"]
publication = "Journal of Biological Inorganic Chemistry, (16), 8, _pp. 1187-96_, https://doi.org/10.1007/s00775-011-0807-6"
publication_short = "Journal of Biological Inorganic Chemistry, (16), 8, _pp. 1187-96_, https://doi.org/10.1007/s00775-011-0807-6"
abstract = "The prostate gland is the most common site of neoplastic disorders in men. The pathogenesis of inflammatory cells, prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) lesions, and prostate cancer is still under investigation. Inflammatory cells by producing free radicals are considered as major and universal contributors to cancerogenesis. PIN is regarded as a precursor lesion to prostate cancer or a marker signaling the vulnerability of the epithelium to neoplastic transformation [1]. Differentiation markers that are frequently changed in early invasive carcinoma are also changed in PIN lesions. In this study, prostate tissue samples obtained during surgical operation and classified as various disease states (inflammation, PIN lesions, and cancer) were examined. The samples were measured by means of microbeam synchrotron-radiation-induced X-ray emission (micro-SRIXE). Special attention was paid to examine the relationship between the earlier-mentioned disorders and changes in relative concentrations of S, K, Ca, Fe, Cu, and Zn. Applying the image-processing program ImageJ enabled us to select the areas of interest from two-dimensional maps of various prostate samples according to the histopathologist’s evaluation. Detailed analysis of micro-SRIXE spectra based on multivariate methods shows significant differences between elemental concentrations in inflammatory cells, PIN lesions, and cancerous tissues, which confirms that this method can be used to distinguish various pathological states in prostate tissues. Information obtained in this way may provide better understanding of the biochemistry of unhealthy prostate tissues, thus opening the way to find new medicines/treatments to prevent or slow down some harmful intracellular processes."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
